Using a D register as
the memory component
in our sequential logic
system works great!
At each rising
edge of the clock,
the register loads
the new state,
which then appears at
the register’s output
as the current state for the
rest of the clock period.
The combinational logic uses
the current state and the value
of the inputs to calculate
the next state and the values
for the outputs.
A sequence of rising
clock edges and inputs
will produce a sequence
of states, which
leads to a sequence of outputs.
In the next chapter we’ll
introduce a new abstraction,
finite state machines, that
will make it easy to design
sequential logic systems.
Let’s use the timing analysis
techniques we’ve learned
on the sequential logic
system shown here.
The timing specifications for
the register and combinational
logic are as shown.
Here are the questions
we need to answer.
The contamination delay of
the combinational logic isn’t
specified.
What does it have to be
in order for the system
to work correctly?
Well, we know that the
sum of register and logic
contamination delays
has to be greater
than or equal to the hold
time of the register.
Using the timing
parameters we do know along
with a little
arithmetic tells us
that the contamination
delay of the logic
has to be at least 1ns.
What is the minimum value
for the clock period tCLK?
The second timing inequality
from the previous section
tells us that tCLK
has be greater
than than the sum of the
register and logic propagation
delays plus the setup
time of the register.
Using the known values
for these parameters
gives us a minimum
clock period of 10ns.
What are the timing constraints
for the Input signal
relative to the rising
edge of the clock?
For this we’ll need a diagram!
The Next State signal is
the input to the register
so it has to meet the setup
and hold times as shown here.
Next we show the
Input signal and how
the timing of its
transitions affect
to the timing of the
Next State signal.
Now it’s pretty easy to figure
out when Input has to be stable
before the rising clock edge,
i.e., the setup time for Input.
The setup time for
Input is the sum
of propagation
delay of the logic
plus the setup time
for the register, which
we calculate as 7ns.
In other words, if the Input
signal is stable at least 7ns
before the rising clock edge,
then Next State will be stable
at least 2ns before the rising
clock edge and hence meet
the register’s
specified setup time.
Similarly, the
hold time of Input
has to be the hold
time of the register
minus the contamination
delay of the logic, which
we calculate as 1ns.
In other words, if Input
is stable at least 1ns
after the rising clock
edge, then Next State
will be stable for another
1ns, i.e., a total of 2ns
after the rising clock edge.
This meets the specified
hold time of the register.
This completes our introduction
to sequential logic.
Pretty much every
digital system out
there is a sequential
logic system
and hence is obeying the
timing constraints imposed
by the dynamic discipline.
So next time you see an ad
for a 1.7 GHz processor chip,
you’ll know where
the “1.7” came from!